---
layout: home
title: Home
---
## About Me
I am currently a master’s student at KAIST, conducting research in the [Network security and privacy](https://netsp.kaist.ac.kr) group advised by Professor Min Suk Kang. 
My research background spans usable security and network security, which provides me with a strong understanding in human-centered security research with technical skills. 
As an undergraduate, I double-majored in Mechanical Engineering and Computer Science at KAIST.<br/>

My research interests focuses on exploring real-world security and privacy threats and addressing them from a human-centered perspective. Specifically, I am eager to understand how people perceive privacy and security challenges and to develop novel solutions that balance usability and privacy expectations. 
<!-- My research interests lie at the intersection of emerging technologies, human-computer interaction (HCI), and cybersecurity. Specifically, I am eager to investigate how people perceive privacy and security challenges in emerging technologies and explore novel solutions to address these issues.<br/> -->

I am currently <ins><b>seeking a Ph.D. position in usable security and privacy research</b></ins> and welcome any interested parties to reach out to me for collaboration.
<!-- My research focus is to find answer for the following question: **"How can systems be designed to empower individuals to effectively protect their privacy and security?"**.  -->
<!-- I am currently pursuing a M.S. at KAIST, under the guidance of Professor Min Suk Kang in the [Network security and privacy](https://netsp.kaist.ac.kr) group. My research primarily focuses on the security of blockchain and distributed systems, with a growing interest in machine learning security. I completed my B.S. in Computer Science at Yonsei University, and I anticipate finishing my M.S. degree at KAIST in 2025. -->

## Research Experiences
__Understanding User Privacy Perceptions in Video Conferencing: Insights from a Feature-Specific User Study (Submitted to PETS'25)__<br/>
_Usable security and Privacy, Quantitative analysis, Contextual integrity_

As a leader of this research, I investigated user privacy perceptions regarding specific features of video conferencing platforms that have potential privacy implications, such as attention tracking, meeting recording, pinning, and spotlighting. Using the contextual integrity framework, I defined the various information flows generated by each feature and explored users’ acceptability of these flows. <br/>

A total of 769 participants responded, and the results were analyzed using quantitative methods. The findings reveal emerging privacy concerns around the pinning and spotlighting features, as users often experience discomfort when their video is pinned or spotlighted by others in certain contexts. These insights offer a deeper understanding of privacy issues in video conferencing, underscoring the need for more nuanced privacy controls and a proactive approach to feature development.

_This is the beginning of my journey into usable security! I’m thrilled to tackle security and privacy issues regrading an end-user perspective. Stay tuned for more as I continue this exciting path!_
<br/>

__Attacking PoW-Based DoS Defense of Tor Onion Service (Conditionally accepted to USENIX Security'25)__<br/>
_Network security, Tor Onion Service, Denial-of-service (DoS), Puzzle-based defense_

In August 2023, Tor onion service adopted Proof-of-work (PoW) based Denial-of-service (DoS) defense mechanism [(Details)](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/torspec/-/blob/main/proposals/327-pow-over-intro.txt). Clients solve a PoW puzzle with a suggested difficulty level by the service to gain access. When the service becomes congested, the difficulty increases, allowing only clients with greater computational power to access it. This paper illustrates how maliciously inflating the difficulty level can make the system appear overloaded, thereby preventing legitimate clients from accessing the service.<br/>

My primary contribution to this research was modifying the Tor client code to enable a malicious client to continuously send “introduce” messages to the target onion service. I also tested the attack in both Tor Shadow simulations and real-world environments.
<br/>

__Klaytn Bug Report__ [(Report)](https://kir.kaia.io/t/the-8th-kir-nets-p-lab-kaist-securing-and-improving-bft-consensus-protocols-with-advanced-networking-progress-report-6/554) <br/>
_Blockchain, Bug analysis, Testbed implementation, Open source_

Klaytn blockchain system suffered from consensus delay on Apr 3, 2020 [(Details)](https://medium.com/klaytn/analysis-on-consensus-delay-at-cypress-block-24-002-380-7db8cb366dc1). I suggest the round change mechanism triggers the root cause of the issue, which I analyzed at the code level. I shared the potential problem with the Klaytn development team.<br/> 

All blockchain systems face challenges in tracking shared messages. To address this, I additionally built a testbed for monitoring the propagation of consensus messages in Klaytn and open-sourced it on [GitHub](https://github.com/NetSP-KAIST/Klaytn_CN_monitoring).
<br/>

## Projects
<details> 
<summary> App Developments </summary> <br/>
<div markdown="1">

__Paran-girin__ [(demo)](https://youtube.com/shorts/e_1FhJJl2s0?feature=share)[(github)](https://github.com/dandicompany/project_parangirin)<br/>
<!-- https://youtube.com/shorts/advdK7l2fjA?feature=share -->
_Feb 2021 - Oct 2021_<br/>
This is an application designed to facilitate communication between parents and children through the character Paran-Girin (Blue Giraffe). To briefly introduce the app, Paran-Girin asks questions to the children, and they respond. As the front-end app developer, I primarily implemented communication-related features. These included displaying the giraffe gif on the main screen, utilizing TTS (text-to-speech) to ask the child a question, recording the child’s responses via the camera, and saving these recordings. I also developed the calendar UI, which displays the child’s responses by date.<br/> 

I used the Flutter framework for development. Once completed, the app was released on both the Google Play Store and the App Store, receiving positive feedback from users, particularly for its ability to enhance interactions with children. <br/> 

__AR treasure hunter__ [(demo)](https://youtube.com/shorts/8abwTX9zSvk?feature=share)<br/>
<!-- https://www.youtube.com/shorts/Ha194hPI0hM -->
_Jan 2021_ <br/>
During the four-week intensive coding camp held at KAIST, I and my teammate developed an app called  “AR Treasure Hunter”, which received the Best Project Award. Similar to Pokémon Go, this app uses AR technology to allow players to find treasures hidden in the real world by developers.<br/>

My primary roles were implementing the AR environment using Unity, enabling treasures to be hidden at actual physical locations, and creating the functionality that allows players to discover these treasures at specific locations. 

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary> Web3 Project </summary> <br/>
<div markdown="1">
__Decentralized Survey Platform__ [(slides)](/blockchain_survey_proposal.pdf)[(whitepaper)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Jn1Z0rmFxxnQZb1yJqyllNcBznjwTSA1CSxqLWLZyCA/edit?tab=t.0) <br/>
_Mar 2023 - June 2023_ <br/>
As part of the CS492 course, I proposed a blockchain-based solution for survey platforms. In traditional survey platforms, researchers often face challenges in finding suitable participants and motivating them to engage in studies. From the participants’ perspective, privacy concerns arise when they are asked to share sensitive personal information. To address these issues, I proposed a decentralized survey platform that enables participants to verify their eligibility through Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKP) without revealing personal information. I led the technical design as the project’s **tech leader**, and our project earned **second place**.
</div>
</details> 

<details>
<summary> Hardware Prototyping</summary> <br/>
<div markdown="1">

__Minions Robot__ [(demo)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8QzA2e_r0)<br/>
_Nov 2019_ <br/>
This was part of a course project for the ID220 at KAIST. I felt that RC cars controlled solely by joysticks were too conventional, and I wanted to break away from that by enabling control through hand motions using Arduino, creating a more engaging interaction. I attached flexible thin-film pressure sensors to a glove, allowing it to detect bending motions so that users could control the RC car with hand gestures.<br/> 

Additionally, I designed the RC car to resemble a Minion, giving it a more friendly and approachable appearance. I also added a special feature: when users form a mini heart gesture with their fingers, a flower pops up from the car’s head as a playful touch. 
</div>
</details>


<details>
<summary> Others </summary> <br/>
<div markdown="1">
__Optimizing Fast Packet Transmission for Efficient Blockchain Networks__ <br/>
_Sep 2022 - Aug 2023_ <br/>
This project spanned over a year but is currently discontinued. Initially, the goal was to design a system that would ensure fast, efficient message propagation and security from network attacks targeting blockchain by leveraging SCION network infrastructure.<br/> 

During this process for fast packet transmission, I modified the [f-stack](https://github.com/F-Stack/f-stack) and [mtcp](https://github.com/mtcp-stack/mtcp) to enable cut-through routing for TCP packets which is working on top of DPDK.<br/> 

Although the project was discontinued, spending over a year tackling this problem allowed me to gain deep insights into networking topics such as the history of multicast, inter-AS dynamics, and fast blockchain message propagation systems.

__Object Detector__ [(demo)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/3UqN9yb03Go)<br/>
_June 2019 - July 2019_ <br/>
During my undergraduate studies, I conducted a month-long research project at the KAIST Biorobotics Lab. In this project, I utilized OpenCV to detect a square cuboid object captured by the RealSense camera and calculated the physical location of the object. Following this, I controlled a robotic arm, enabling it to lift the detected object. 
</div>
</details>